README.md, before:

power_shell
===========

Advanced system-wide Erlang shell capabilities

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.com/WhatsApp/power_shell.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.com/WhatsApp/power_shell)

Build with rebar3:

    rebar3 compile

Versions supported: tested with OTP 20, 21, 22 and 23.
There is no support for older OTP versions, due to changes made for R20. 
Basic eval() worked down to R16B.

Documentation can be built with edoc: `rebar3 edoc`

License
-------
power_shell license is available in the LICENSE file in the root directory of this source tree.

Usage
--------------

power_shell can be used as an application, and in form of a library. When started as application, power_shell examines
**shell_integration** configuration parameter. It can be set to shell_default, or user_default. Depending on the
parameter, power_shell can load itself as user_default module (if none was loaded before), or add proxy calls to
already loaded user_default module.

### Evaluating non-exported functions
Enter `power_shell:eval(Mod, Fun, [Arg1, Arg2, Arg3]).` in the shell to evaluate function Fun in module Mod. It does 
not need to be exported. 
If module Mod is currently loaded, power_shell will try to locate corresponding *.beam file, load debug info chunk and 
evaluate function Fun with supplied arguments. 
If module is not loaded, but *.beam file can be found, power_shell does not attempt to load it. However, if there is a 
remote (fully qualified) call, Erlang VM (BEAM) will load the file automatically.

When shell integration (injection) is enabled, evaluating non-exported functions is simplified to just `eval(Mod, Fun, [Args].`

### Debugging shortcuts
Available with shell integration.

### Coverage Analysis Tool for Erlang
Modules that were patched by 'cover' application are also supported. If a module was cover_compiled, and it is being
evaluated with power_shell:eval, coverage analysis works as expected.

Configuration
-------------
During application startup, power_shell examines following application environment variables:
 
- **cache_code** (boolean, default false) - start code cache process. This process keeps decompiled beam files in 
memory, speeding up execution if code does not change
- **shell_integration** (atom, shell_default | user_default, default is user_default) - apply shell integration, 
making `power_shell:eval(Mod, Fun, Args)` available in shell, `eval(Mod, Fun, Args)` 

It is possible to supply values using sys.config file, or via command line when starting BEAM:

    erl -power_shell cache_code true

Features planned
----------------

- [ ] shell integration, allowing to execute non-exported functions directly from the shell, using convenient syntax: 
`some_mod:non_exported(Arg1, Arg2, Arg3).` and not `eval(some_mod, non_exported, [Arg1, Arg2, Arg3]).` 
- [ ] ectl library integration
- [ ] monitoring library integration
- [ ] additional shell commands for debugging & troubleshooting

Commit message:

power_shell: configurable support for -on_load()
Previous versions did not support -on_load() compiler attribute,
allowing to evaluate code without NIFs loaded in place of Erlang
code.
This commit adds support for -on_load(), switched off by default,
and enabled via {skip_on_load, false} setting.

README.md, after:

# power_shell

Advanced system-wide Erlang shell capabilities

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.com/WhatsApp/power_shell.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.com/WhatsApp/power_shell)

Build with rebar3:

    rebar3 compile

Versions supported: tested with OTP 20, 21, 22 and 23.
There is no support for older OTP versions, due to changes made for R20. 
Basic eval() worked down to R16B.

Documentation can be built with edoc: `rebar3 edoc`

## License
power_shell license is available in the LICENSE file in the root directory of this source tree.

## Usage

power_shell can be used as an application, and in form of a library. When started as application, power_shell examines
**shell_integration** configuration parameter. It can be set to shell_default, or user_default. Depending on the
parameter, power_shell can load itself as user_default module (if none was loaded before), or add proxy calls to
already loaded user_default module.

### Evaluating non-exported functions
Enter `power_shell:eval(Mod, Fun, [Arg1, Arg2, Arg3]).` in the shell to evaluate function Fun in module Mod. It does 
not need to be exported. 
If module Mod is currently loaded, power_shell will try to locate corresponding *.beam file, load debug info chunk and 
evaluate function Fun with supplied arguments. 
If module is not loaded, but *.beam file can be found, power_shell does not attempt to load it. However, if there is a 
remote (fully qualified) call, Erlang VM (BEAM) will load the file automatically.

When shell integration (injection) is enabled, evaluating non-exported functions is simplified to just `eval(Mod, Fun, [Args].`

### Debugging shortcuts
Available with shell integration.

### Coverage Analysis Tool for Erlang
Modules that were patched by 'cover' application are also supported. If a module was cover_compiled, and it is being
evaluated with power_shell:eval, coverage analysis works as expected.

### -on_load() attribute support
To preserve compatibility with earlier versions, power_shell does not execute -on_load() by default. To change
this behaviour, set `skip_on_load` application variable to `false`:

    ok = application:load(power_shell),
    ok = application:set_env(power_shell, skip_on_load, false).

## Configuration
During application startup, power_shell examines following application environment variables:
 
- **cache_code** (boolean, default false) - start code cache process. This process keeps decompiled beam files in 
memory, speeding up execution if code does not change
- **shell_integration** (atom, shell_default | user_default, default is user_default) - apply shell integration, 
making `power_shell:eval(Mod, Fun, Args)` available in shell, `eval(Mod, Fun, Args)`
- **skip_on_load** (boolean, default true) - skip -on_load() execution when decompiling beam (or loading source)

It is possible to supply values using sys.config file, or via command line when starting BEAM:

    erl -power_shell cache_code true

## Features planned

- [ ] shell integration, allowing to execute non-exported functions directly from the shell, using convenient syntax: 
`some_mod:non_exported(Arg1, Arg2, Arg3).` and not `eval(some_mod, non_exported, [Arg1, Arg2, Arg3]).` 
- [ ] ectl library integration
- [ ] monitoring library integration
- [ ] additional shell commands for debugging & troubleshooting
